Checklist for testing Mobile Application

1. Compatibility in different devices.
2. Compatibility in different screen size.
3. Compatibility in different OS.
4. Compatibility in different browsers.
5. Compatibility in different orientation.
6. GUI for web Apps in different screens and resolutions.
7. API. Track the App’s requests and responses.
8. Clarity and readability of application buttons.
9. Distinguishing the inactive buttons from active buttons.
10.Font options, zoom-in and out and legibility of app display.
11.Perform SQL testing.
12.Perform perfomance testing.
13.Perform secutity testing.
14.Run the app on different network conditions: 2G, 3G, 4G, WiFi only, etc.
15.Checkt the App behaves when mobile app moves from mobile data to WiFi and vice versa.
16.Validating installation of the App.
17.Validating uninstallation of the App.
18.Testing of backups in case of data loss during app upgrades.
19.Checkt the App behaves in case of different battery level.
20.Testing the online and offline modes of the App.
21.Making/Receiving voice calls while the App is running.
22.Rejecting calls while viewing the application.
23.Resuming App from the same point as left at the time of switching to another app.
24.Sending/Receiving messages and alerts while the App is running.
25.Sending/Receiving Push Notifications and responding to them.
26.Time taken to launch the application
27.Application performance at times of peak load conditions.
28.Making/Receiving SMS while the App is running.
29.Push notification message (calendar reminders, to-do tasketc.).
30.Push notification message from another app
31.Switch on/off GPS
32.Can the App be found in the play store or app store?
33.Can the App switch to different apps on the device through multitasking.
34.Are all touch screen positions (buttons) working when a screenprotector is used?
35.Switches between networks.
36.Does app is asking permission to access a particular feature of the phone?﻿(For example, Calendar, Contacts, Phone dialer, location, GPS, etc).
37.If performance is slow, indicate a progress status icon (“Loading...”),﻿preferably with specific message.
38.Two-factor authentication (if applicable).
39.Fingerprint and face ID (if applicable).
40.When memory is full how application handle this scenario.
41.When data saved on SD card, application access them easily.
42.What happens when SD card is removed.
43.When data saved on cloud, application access them easily.
44.Data recovery when connection lost or SD card damaged.
45.Are inactive buttons clearly distinguished from active buttons?
46.Customers’ Payment data security.
47.Network protocols security for running applications.
48.Authenticating application certificates and permissions.
49.Receiving visual feedback for user actions in the application within 3 seconds max.
50.Minimizing user actions by enabling them directly pick their choice from the screen.